Date: Fri, 25 May 90 12:52:22 -0500
From: jpd@pc.usl.edu (jpd DugalJP)
Message-Id: <9005251752.AA28036@pc.usl.edu>
To: Info-ZIP@WSMR-SIMTEL20.ARMY.MIL
Subject: Improved unzip man page

.TH unzip 1 "version 3.0"
.SH NAME
unzip - list/test/extract from a ZIP archive file
.SH SYNOPSIS
unzip [-tvcam] file[.zip]  [filespec] ...
.SH ARGUMENTS
.in +12
.ti -12
file[.zip]  Path of the ZIP archive.  The suffix ".zip" is applied
if the entryname portion lacks a suffix.  Note that
self-extracting ZIP files are supported; just specify
the ".exe" suffix yourself.
.sp 1
.ti -12
[filespec]  An optional list of archive members to be processed.
Expressions may be used to match multiple menbers.  See
DESCRIPTION (below) for more details.
.SH OPTIONS
.nf
-t	test archive contents for validity
-v	view (ie, list) archive contents
-c	extract to stdout
.sp 1
-a	convert <CR> <LF> at line end to <LF>
-m	map extracted filenames to lower case
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B unzip
will list, test, or extract from a ZIP archive, commonly found on MSDOS
systems.
Archive member extraction is implied by the absence of the -v or -t
options.  All archive members are processed unless a
.B filespec
is provided to specify a subset of the archive members.
The
.B filespec
is similar to an egrep expression, and may contain:
.sp 1
.in +8
.ti -8
*       matches a sequence of 0 or more characters
.ti -8
?       matches exactly 1 character
.ti -8
\\nnn    matches the character having octal code nnn
.ti -8
[...]   matches any single character found inside the brackets; ranges
are specified by a beginning character, a hyphen, and an ending
character.  If a '!' follows the left bracket, then the range
of characters matched is complemented, with respect to the ASCII
character set.
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
v1.2	3/15/89	Samuel H. Smith
v2.x	1989 Many contributors.	
v3.0	5/1/90 David Kirschbaum consolidator, kirsch@arsocomvax.socom.mil
.fi

